---
title: Training Training Training
date:
  created: 2026-04-20
  updated: 2026-04-23
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - clojure
  - cycling
  - neovim
draft: true
---

The weather is much nicer this week so more training for the Dragon Ride in June.  A typical ride at the start of the week with a huge 180km ride to Brighton and back mid-week.

Added the Practicalli install scripts for [Neovim](#neovim) to the Neovim and Engineering Playbook websites.

<!-- more -->


## Neovim

Updated [Practicalli Neovim](https://practical.li/neovim) with install scripts using DRA, for Neovim stable and nightly releases.

Neovim stable release is installed globally in `/usr/local/bin` as I use it for my personal account and the operating system administration account (root).

Neovim nightly is installed in the `~/.local/bin` directory of my personal account and used for testing new releases of AstroNvim and Practicalli nvim-astro.

!!! EXAMPLE "Install Neovim stable globally"
    ```shell
    #!/usr/bin/env bash

    # Install the current release version of Neovim from GitHub for all users

    echo
    echo "# ---------------------------------------"
    echo "Neovim hyper-configurable editor - installed for all users"

    # install the nvim.appimage (automatic only installs nvim and not runtime)
    # rename file to `nvim` the standard executable name
    sudo dra download --select nvim-linux-x86_64.appimage --install --output /usr/local/bin/nvim neovim/neovim

    echo
    echo "Neovim version: $(nvim --version)"
    echo "# ---------------------------------------"
    echo ""
    ```

!!! EXAMPLE "Install Neovim nightly in personal account"
    ```shell
    #!/usr/bin/env bash

    # Install the pre-release version of Neovim from GitHub, for the current user

    echo
    echo "# ---------------------------------------"
    echo "Neovim hyper-configurable editor"
    echo "- installed only for current user"

    # Install nvim.appimage nightly release tag and rename to nvim-nightly
    dra download --tag nightly --select nvim-linux-x86_64.appimage --install --output ~/.local/bin/nvim-nightly neovim/neovim

    echo
    echo "Neovim pre-release version: $(nvim-nightly --version)"
    echo "# ---------------------------------------"
    echo
    ```


## Practicalli

Updated Zensical to 0.0.36 which supports TOML 1.1 specification, enabling a simpler way to define the navigation for a Zensical site.

So far I haven't determined what the difference is in TOML 1.1, so hopefully it will be in the docs later this year.

The `debian-linux/cli/zensical.sh` script from [:fontawesome-brands-github: Practicalli Dotfiles](https://github.com/practicalli/dotfiles){target=_blank} is working well as an update tool.

```shell-output
# ---------------------------------------
Install Zensical - updates if already installed
Resolved 8 packages in 501ms
Prepared 3 packages in 3.29s
Uninstalled 2 packages in 351ms
Installed 3 packages in 421ms
 - click==8.3.2
 + click==8.3.3
 + tomli==2.4.1
 - zensical==0.0.32
 + zensical==0.0.36
Installed 1 executable: zensical

Zensical version: 0.0.36
# ---------------------------------------
```


## Cycling

Last year I resurrected the Bianchi bicycle which I originally bought back in 2006, so its 20 years old this year and still going strong.

The only constraint I notice with the Bianchi is using rim brakes.  I've been riding a Ribble SL with disc brakes and they really make a difference when it comes to control of the bike, making me feel much more confident in stopping.

I have fitted Swiss Stop brake pads and they do make a differece, but it still seems a world away from the stopping power of disc brakes.

I do love the Bianchi bike, so I have decided that the next bike I buy will be a Bianchi (although I am not in any rush).

Looking at the [Bianchi range](https://bianchi.co.uk/), the [Infinito](https://bianchi.co.uk/bianchi-infinito/) seems to be the model that suits my needs, although the [Specialissima](https://bianchi.co.uk/bianchi-specialissima/) is very nice (although 1,100 GBP more).

I have been happy with a mechanical group set, but the [Infinito Pro Rival AXS](https://bianchi.co.uk/bianchi-infinito-Pro-Rival-AXS/) would be my preferred groupset.

As with Shimano, SRAM has several levels of groupset

- SRAM Rival is comparable to Shimano 105
- SRAM Force is comparable to Shimano Ultegra
- SRAM RED is comparable to Shimano Dura Ace



[Epic Cycles]() seems a promising place to buy a new bike from.  Their attention to detail and customised build service are very appealing.

The [Gusto Evo Elite Ultra bicycle](https://epic-cycles.co.uk/gusto-cobra-evo) looks very nice and at a very reasonable price.  The frame uses a unique mix of carbon fibre and Innegra synthetic fibre that provides additional vibration absorption and durability.

The Evo Ultra components:

- Brakes: Shimano 105 Hydraulic Disc
- Cassette: Shimano 105 R7100 11-34t* 12-Speed
- Chain: Shimano 105
- Crankset: Shimano 105 R7100 34x50t*
- Frameset: Gusto Cobra Evo ILC high modulus carbon
- Front Axle: Thru Axle 12x100mm
- Front Derailleur: Shimano 105
- Handlebar Tape: Gusto Fade
- Handlebar/Stem: Attaque Integrated Carbon
- Rear Axle: Thru Axle 12x142mm
- Rear Derailleur: Shimano 105
- Saddle: Prologo Dimension RS
- Seatpost: Attaque Carbon
- Shifters: Shimano 105 12-speed
- Tyres: Goodyear Eagle Sport clincher 700x25c – FREE upgrade to either Continental Grand Prix or Vittoria Rubino V 28mm tyres (tubeless or tube-type)
- Wheels: Attaque Carbon 50 tubeless ready


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
