---
title: The Saga Begins
date:
  created: 2025-07-28
  updated: 2025-07-30
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - clojure
  - cycling
draft: false
---


I tried using Hyprland with Debian Linux a few months ago but the packages are a little out of date even when using the unstable (SID) distribution.  As I had been using SID packages, then the Debian Linux system had become a little too unstable for day to day use.  Interestingly I installed the KDE desktop and that worked very nicely before I started again from scratch.

Hyperland is kept up to date in Arch Linux although there is a lot more work to learn and maintain arch linux compared to Debian Linux.  pacman command options are quite cryptic and I found them hard to memorise.  Its also easy to break things doing an update (the downside of a rolling release based distribution).

[Garuda Linux](#garuda-linux) adds some nice tools on top of Arch Linux (and can also used the Nix sub-system) to simplify overall package upgrades and a range of other maintenance tools.

Aims:

- update Practicalli Clojure hot loading examples
- continue eval of shuttle and rust experiments - on hold due to service outages
- [new cleats](#cycling) for the black & red Lake shoes (and readjust cleats on white lake shoes)
- [upgrade OS on rangerone](#garuda-linux) (Garuda Linux Hyprland flavor)


<!-- more -->

## Ascii Generators

Large Headings:

[Ascii Generator - Calvin S for large headings](https://patorjk.com/software/taag/#p=display&f=Calvin%20S&t=Hardware){target=_blank .md-button}

[Ascii Generator - from image file](https://ascii-art-generator-sigma.vercel.app/){target=_blank .md-button}


## Garuda Linux

Trying out [Garuda Linux](https://garudalinux.org/) on the Lenovo Thinkpad P14s (rangerone), using the hyprland flavour.

Created a USB memory stick

```shell
sudo dd if=garuda-linux-hyprland.iso of=/dev/sda bs=1M status=progress
```

Booted on the USB stick by selecting Enter on the bios prompt, then F12 to select boot device - USB Generic disk

The Live image ran and the Hyprland 'desktop' and a quick test of the essentials was run (ethernet, bluetooth mouse, external keyboard, browser & 1password extension).

The live image has a launcher for the Calamaris install tool (the installer fails if arch packages were updated before running the install).


### Post install tasks

- comment kitty as float in hyprland config

- add Practicalli Kitty configuration (in Practicalli dotfiles)

- add Practicalli Starship configuration (in Practicalli dotfiles)

- add Practicalli shell-aliases configuration (in Practicalli dotfiles)

- install github-cli package to use .ssh keys effectively without keyring (and without having to mess around with ssh-agent, which needs a different command for the fish shell)

```shell
sudo pacman -Sy github-cli
```


### ssh-agent with fish shell

The commands used with Zsh to start and connect to the ssh-agent do not work for fish shell.

I forgot which key to add, but got a warning to remind me that it is the private key file that should be used.

```shell-output
λ eval (ssh-agent -c)
Agent pid 79802

λ ssh-add ~/.ssh/engineering.pub    ## added wrong key
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
@         WARNING: UNPROTECTED PRIVATE KEY FILE!          @
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
Permissions 0644 for '/home/practicalli/.ssh/engineering.pub' are too open.
It is required that your private key files are NOT accessible by others.
This private key will be ignored.

λ ssh-add ~/.ssh/engineering
Enter passphrase for /home/practicalli/.ssh/engineering:
Identity added: /home/practicalli/.ssh/engineering (engineering@practical.li)
```

This approach is only valid for a specific terminal session.

Ideally there would be a key ring option I could use with Hyprland, which would unlock my SSH keys automatically when I successfully login.


Another approach to try is to  in the shell resource file, i.e. `.zshrc` `.bashrc` (not sure about fish shell yet).

```config
export SSH_AUTH_SOCK="$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/ssh-agent.socket"
```

Ensure `ssh-agent` package installed and enabled.

Use `ssh-add` to add an SSH key, specifying the duration for the key to remain available, e.g. use SSH key for 24 hours without requiring the password.

```shell
ssh-add -t 24h ~/.ssh/engineering
```

Or [set `ssh-agent` as a systemd process](blog post to add ssh-agent as a systemd process: https://www.lorenzobettini.it/2023/09/hyprland-and-ssh-agent/){target=_blank} or see the [Arch Linux article on starting ssh-agent with systemd user](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/SSH_keys#Start_ssh-agent_with_systemd_user){target=_blank}

Or [generate and add an SSH Key to a Yubikey hardware security device](https://developers.yubico.com/SSH/Securing_SSH_with_FIDO2.html){target=_blank}.  This should allow you to tap the Yubikey when signing a commit (or tag) and pushing commit(s) to a remove service.

A PIN must be set on the Yubikey to add the SSH Key, although this greatly simplifies using the key on any other machine (as the Yubikey contains the private key and can generate a suitable link on a new computer).

Or [keychain](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/SSH_keys#Keychain){target=_blank} to only need to enter the SSH key passphrase when starting/rebooting the operating system.


### GitHub CLI

In theory I should be able to use the GitHub CLI as a way to authenticate with GitHub using my existing SSH keys.


## Cycling

I had modified the position of the cleats on my white Lake shoes a couple of weeks ago needed to adjust them again as my ankle and side of my calf was feeling a little strained.

I used the Ergon bike ergonomics cleat positioning tool to ensure the cleats were in the optimum position.

- The ball of each foot should be over the spindle of each pedal.  The cleat tool provides a guide to line this up.

- The shoe should be parallel to the pedal & bike

Whilst the Q-factor is supposed to be very narrow for optimum aerodynamics, I adjusted the cleats to be as wide as possible without compromising the above to positions. I have a larger frame so a smaller Q-factor isnt good for my foot and leg position.

At a previous bike fit, cleat spacers were recommended to help with foot position.  However, the more I have been riding the less the spacers feel right.  I refitted the cleats without the spacers.


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
