---
title: Hoping for a stable polar vortex
date:
  created: 2026-01-19
  updated: 2026-01-19
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - cycling
  - practicalli
draft: false
---

Its mostly raining so I am taking the opportunity to go through all my files and notes from the last decade.  Reviwing which info is still useful, what needs refreshing and what can go to the digital heaven 🙂

I got out for two cycle rides this week, Tuesday for a ride to Melia's Cafe and Saturday Club ride.

Saturday afternoon I helped with my neighbours plumbing.  The boiler was banging, so I topped up the hot water tank from the mains.  The heating failed to come that morning, so I also reset the boiler and used the manual switch to send hot water to the boiler.  That evening the hot water was going to the radiators according to the set schedule.

<!-- more -->



## Practicalli

I continue to experiment with Zensical static site generator for the Practicalli books.  All is going well with the Practicalli Cycling website that was created from a new zensical project.

I asked for feedback about the future of Practicalli on the Clojurians Slack community and was gratified on the positive response to everything I have done over the last 15 years.  I aim to work much closer with people from the Clojure community and look for opportunities to collaborate.


### Makefile tasks

Tasked were defined to simplify working with the Python Virtual Environment, recommended by Zensical (and common for Python projects to manage the use of specific libraries).

The `make` command starts a new shell session for each separate command.  Any command that needs the virtual environment should be prepended by the `activate` command.

If the `activate` is on a separate line in the Makefile task definition, then the shell created for the next command will fail.

The `&&` shell syntax joins two commands together so that `make` will run them in the same shell session.

!!! EXAMPLE "Practicalli Makefile tasks for Python Virtual Environment"
    ```make
    # -- Makefile Variables ---------------- #
    # Tool variables
    DOCS_SERVER := zensical serve --dev-addr localhost:7777
    PYTHON_VENV_ACTIVATE := . .venv/bin/activate
    # -------------------------------------- #

    # --- Documentation Generation  ------------------ #
    python-venv:  ## Create Python Virtual Environment
    	$(info -- Create Python Virtual Environment -----)
    	uv venv

    docs-install:  ## Install Zensical in Python virtual environment
    	$(info -- Install Zensical  ---------------------)
    	$(PYTHON_VENV_ACTIVATE) && uv add zensical

    docs:  ## Build and run docs in local server
    	$(info -- Local Server --------------------------)
    	$(PYTHON_VENV_ACTIVATE) && $(DOCS_SERVER)

    docs-open:  ## Build docs, run server & open browser
    	$(info -- Local Server & Browser ----------------)
    	$(PYTHON_VENV_ACTIVATE) && $(DOCS_SERVER) --open

    docs-build:  ## Build docs locally
    	$(info -- Build Docs Website --------------------)
    	$(PYTHON_VENV_ACTIVATE) && zensical build

    docs-debug:  ## Run local server in debug mode
    	$(info -- Local Server Debug --------------------)
    	$(PYTHON_VENV_ACTIVATE) &&  $(DOCS_SERVER) -v
    # ------------------------------------------------ #
    ```


## Cycling

A ride on Tuesday down to Melias Cafe was quite chilly but my winter gear held up well.

Saturday was a club ride to Goathurst and there was a nice group to ride with.  There was a nice fast decent on Ide hill and I did find myself ahead of the group for a little bit 😊


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
