---
title: Resiliance is coping with chaos
date:
  created: 2026-05-11
  updated: 2026-05-13
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - artificial-intelligence
  - cycling
  - neovim
  - marksman
draft: false
---

The week started full of promise but quickly fell to pieces 🤣  By the middle of the week I was starting to get some traction again and things were good again by the weekend.

A fairly pragmatic view of 'AI' tools was discussed in the [DevEx Summit 2026](#artificial-intelligence) online conference.

After a false start, I have a [fully working road bike](#cycling) again and am back on the road again.  A nice long and hilly ride to end the week and a lazy Sunday recovering and organising camping gear for the Dragon Ride trip.

<!-- more -->

## Artificial Intelligence

Listen to the Developer Experience Summit 2026 that focused on [unlocking DevEx in the age of 'AI'](https://www.airmeet.com/event/69fdb640-2930-11f1-98ce-234b1d0ac538).  The sessions were mini-panel discussions with two or three people and each session had very similar themes raised.


### Token leader boards

The usage of `AI` tools can be visualised by creating a dashboard of token use, either by team or by individuals. Metrics are useful when the lead to real insights, but can be quite dangerous when they become a goal in themselves.

Token leader boards are useful when they support building a "Community Of Practices" around AI tools.

Understanding who is using 'AI' tools should lead to support for those people to share there experiences.

When token leader boards become solely about competition, gate-keeping knowledge is the norm and adoption of these tools is greatly hindered or even abandoned.


### Software Development Life-cycle

What ever workflow the software engineering team uses, its wasn't designed in mind with the changes that 'AI' tools bring.

Curiously, those teams that really understand the agile principles and practices are in a much more effective position to adopt AI.

There was a common theme of faster feedback.

The discussion about removing 'translation' roles from the workflow was framed in the same way as agile, with customers and sales talking directly with engineering teams.


> NOTE: I was quite surprised how ineffective existing workflows were described by the various panels.


### DORA State of AI report

In 2025, DORA released their first report on the state of 'AI' assisted software development.

The report covers the impact of the whole software development workflow and organisational Capabilities:

- Moving beyond the tools: See why successful AI adoption is a systems problem, not a tools problem
- Introducing the DORA AI Capabilities Model: Learn the seven foundational practices that are proven to amplify the positive impact of AI on organizational performance
- Understanding your teams: Explore seven distinct team profiles, from "harmonious high-achievers" to teams caught in a "legacy bottleneck," to create targeted pathways for improvement
- Directing AI's potential: Find out how Value Stream Management (VSM) acts as a force multiplier, ensuring local productivity gains translate into measurable product performance instead of downstream chaos

!!! QUOTE
    AI’s primary role is as an amplifier, magnifying an organization’s existing strengths and weaknesses.

    The greatest returns on AI investment come not from the tools themselves, but from a strategic focus on the underlying organizational system.

My own brief summary is that a well organised company has an opportunity to enhance practices and workflows, assuming knowledge is shared and tools are introduced with purpose and respective due diligence.

[DORA - State of AI-assisted Software Development](https://dora.dev/research/2025/dora-report/){target=_blank .md-button}


> NOTE: DORA is considering adjusting their report frequency from the current yearly cycle to a quarterly report, to better advice on developments around 'AI' tools.


### DORA AI Capabilities Report

A practical guide to the seven capabilities that amplify the benefits of AI.

For each of the seven core capabilities, the report details implementation strategies, specific tactics for teams to get started, and methods for monitoring progress and fostering continuous improvement.

This is a companion guide to the DORA state of AI report.

[DORA - AI Capabilities Model](https://dora.dev/ai/capabilities-model/report/){target=_blank .md-button}


## Cycling

The new handlebars arrived (a day later than stated) and it was a completely different handlebar (although in the correct packaging).  Something very dodgy is happening at Bikeparts.co.uk and I wont use them again unless I can collect.

I ordered the same handlebar on Amazon and will get a refund from Bikeparts (as I don't trust them to send me the correct handlebars).  I am not sure if I will even get a refund.

Update: after days of silence I finally got my return approved, although am yet to get the refund. They didn't have the handlebars I ordered in stock anyway.

I took the bike to Coney Hall Cycle Works and Erik removed the broken handlebars and fitted the new ones.

The broken handlebars (Level Carbon) were semi-internally wired and I assume Erik used an angle grinder to cut the old handlebars off (there was a fine dust on the stem). This removed the need to replace or re-bleed the hydraulic brakes which would have been 50 GBP per wheel.

When I have plenty of time I will learn how to bleed brakes myself and replace hydraulic cables.  As the new handlebars are internally wired, I can get a compatible stem and move at least the brake cables inside the bike.


### New bike

I have been considering a new bike for a few months and there are quite a few nice bike that caught my attention.

A new Bianchi would be wonderful, but the one I had in mind isnt available until September 2026.

The Gusto Cobra Evo bikes look great.  The Black Obsidian frame is my preference, although the Lavendar and Red frames are very nice too.  There is a shortage of groupsets with this manufacturer, so it will be a month or two before the Shimano 105 models are available.

On Tuesday I took a Vitus Vitesse Evo bike for a test ride from Cycle Exchange in Richmond.  It was a very nice bike and my first opportunity to ride with Sram Etap groupset.

Unfortunately by the time I got home from the test ride, someone had bought the bike. So the decision to buy it or now was made for me.


### Carbon Wheels

I bought some nice carbon wheels from Superteam but they now have a large crack along the side of the rear wheel.

I sent a message to SuperTeam service to see what they advise.  I haven't heard back yet, so will send a follow up email next week.


## Neovim


### Marksman LSP for markdown

[Marksman](https://github.com/artempyanykh/marksman){target=_blank} is a very handy tool to support working with Markdown files.

Links to other markdown files are checked from the root of the project, typically the location of the `.git` directory if a project is under version control.

For Zensical websites, the `docs` directory is the root of all content. Adding an empty `.marksman.toml` file in the `docs` directory ensures that Marksman LSP checks from the correct path.

If `.marksman.toml` file is added after the Marksman LSP server is running, use `:lsp restart` to restart Marksman and pick up the `.marksman.toml` configuration.


### Plugin update

I havent updated the plugins I use for Neovim in a while and I dont have any critical work to do, so `SPC p a` for a full update.

??? EXAMPLE "Neovim Plugin updates - 2026-05-14"
    ```shell-output
      Breaking Changes (2)
        ● astrocommunity 0.07ms  start
            b2d0afe fix(dev-tools-nvim): capture new dependency on async (#1763) (5 days ago)
            0c55fbe fix(nvim-cmp): Preserve opts.sources (#1760) (5 days ago)
            3bcb278 fix(typst)!: remove the outdated .vim plugin; configure treesitter (#1761) (2 weeks ago)
            7c1a46d fix(refactoring-nvim): fix dependencies and API usage for latest version (#1756) (3 weeks ago)
            c55e6c1 feat(rust): bump `rustaceanvim` to v8+ (#1755) (4 weeks ago)
            4521b6c fix(typescript-all-in-one): update lsp configuration and APIs (4 weeks ago)
            6129af8 fix(trouble-nvim): fix error when lspkind is unaccessible by explicitly passing nil (#1751) (4 weeks ago)
            85c0339 fix(inc-rename-nvim): lazy load on cmd instead of lsp setup (#1750) (4 weeks ago)
            36463ca fix(rust): rename `files.excludeDirs` to `files.exclude` (#1753) (5 weeks ago)
            0f87ef8 fix(rust): drop incompatible root_dir under native_lsp_config (#1754) (5 weeks ago)

        ○ nvim-lspconfig  User AstroFile  mason-lspconfig.nvim  astrolsp
            f6738ef feat: panache language server (#4418) (7 days ago)
            31026a1 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (2 weeks ago)
            7c069c5 feat(annotations): add gopls schema #4413 (2 weeks ago)
            f7e89f3 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (2 weeks ago)
            fbe09db fix(kotlin_lsp): update cmd to `intellij-server` #4412 (2 weeks ago)
            0e25d74 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (2 weeks ago)
            dbd2a7a fix(nixd): prefix schema key by "nixd." #4410 (2 weeks ago)
            b66a8ce docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (2 weeks ago)
            0b99551 fix(esbonio): update cmd for esbonio v2 #4409 (2 weeks ago)
            6419b36 fix(ast_grep, ruby_lsp): check name in reuse_client #4408 (2 weeks ago)
            bf5abe6 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (2 weeks ago)
            e87b93d fix(zls): update zls config schema #4405 (2 weeks ago)
            eeef061 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (2 weeks ago)
            4917f87 fix(spade_ls): default binary name #4404 (2 weeks ago)
            01b503f docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (2 weeks ago)
            fa239c1 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (2 weeks ago)
            13a873b feat: spade_ls #4403 (2 weeks ago)
            13deac0 docs: update expert repo #4402 (2 weeks ago)
            21db1fd docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (3 weeks ago)
            5debbaa feat: add more schemas #4401 (3 weeks ago)
            8fde495 ci: bump leafo/gh-actions-lua from 12 to 13 (#4400) (3 weeks ago)
            81878de docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (3 weeks ago)
            6db8f68 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (3 weeks ago)
            766ebf8 feat: ctags_lsp #4399 (3 weeks ago)
            e146efa docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (3 weeks ago)
            699ca97 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (3 weeks ago)
            d50c6d5 docs(lua_ls): how to include lspconfig types #4396 (3 weeks ago)
            e05fb8c docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (3 weeks ago)
            4f39506 feat: phpantom_lsp #4362 (3 weeks ago)
            4b7fbaa fix(flow): invalid condition #4394 (4 weeks ago)
            b80f82f docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (4 weeks ago)
            2a7c826 fix(groovyls): use global executable instead of local jar #4392 (4 weeks ago)
            d10ce09 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (4 weeks ago)
            372c848 fix(golangci_lint_ls): guard against missing `golangci-lint` in `before_init` (#4390) (4 weeks ago)
            8a9378a docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            bf6177e feat: zizmor #4382 (5 weeks ago)
            3c156ab fix(gdscript): remove invalid filetypes #4387 (5 weeks ago)
            b360f2d docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            8af6a1d feat: use node_modules local executable if available #4386 (5 weeks ago)
            d27cf1d docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            52602c6 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            814b2fd feat(smithy_ls): bump from 0.7.0 to 0.8.0 #4385 (5 weeks ago)
            cb5bc0b docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            a18220f docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            9bafffa feat(buf_ls): buf-config filetype #4384 (5 weeks ago)
            c588db3 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            73e144d docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            deb9667 fix(oxlint): oxlintrc.jsonc root marker #4381 (5 weeks ago)
            fb5fa30 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            ef3cda8 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (5 weeks ago)
            76e616c feat: csskit #4380 (5 weeks ago)
            bedca8b ci: bump JohnnyMorganz/stylua-action from 4 to 5 (#4378) (5 weeks ago)
            a776085 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            f8af0d3 docs(gitlab_duo): outdated docs (#4377) (6 weeks ago)
            ffd2b00 docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            490b2c7 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            8caef47 fix(tailwindcss): revert broken config detection #4376 (6 weeks ago)
            9ccd58a docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            fe209bc feat(tailwindcss): support multiple import patterns #4371 (6 weeks ago)
            11afeba docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            e6eb630 feat(robotcode): support virtual env #4367 (6 weeks ago)
            433267f docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            cafc464 feat: make oxfmt support oxfmt.config.ts files (#4372) (6 weeks ago)
            8e2084b docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            23bfb2a fix(tailwindcss_ls): add experimental.configFile to support Tailwind v4 #4222 (6 weeks ago)
            9d28ece docs: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            d278233 ci: disable gen-annotations in forks #4366 (6 weeks ago)
            5492a24 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (6 weeks ago)
            50cf471 docs: document `vim.pack` as preferred installation method #4364 (6 weeks ago)
            16812ab fix(biome): set lower priority for config files as root #4363 (7 weeks ago)
            9777401 fix(ci): avoid yucky "chore" type (7 weeks ago)
            d93772c docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (7 weeks ago)
            7278887 fix(ci): "attempt to index field version" #4361 (7 weeks ago)
            399076c docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (7 weeks ago)
            0f74791 fix(ci): noisy version changes in generated docs #4360 (7 weeks ago)
            b8c4df5 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (7 weeks ago)
            5cce86e fix(ci): retry generator jobs #4359 (7 weeks ago)
            027861f chore: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (7 weeks ago)
            61f67a4 fix(roslyn_ls): handle roslyn.client.fixAllCodeAction command #4358 (7 weeks ago)
            1a6d692 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (7 weeks ago)
            0624a74 feat(stylelint)!: migrate to stylelint-language-server #4351 (7 weeks ago)
            46204c8 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (7 weeks ago)
            ddbc332 feat: add `vimdoc_ls` config #4347 (7 weeks ago)
            5b3c9cf docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (7 weeks ago)
            d7c25c5 ci: disable docgen in forks #4357 (7 weeks ago)
            4daa143 chore: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (7 weeks ago)
            9586844 fix(biome): root markers #4356 (7 weeks ago)
            841c6d4 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (8 weeks ago)
            bf92be6 fix: prevent file leak in `root_markers_with_field()` #4355 (8 weeks ago)
            e057806 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (8 weeks ago)
            048bee3 fix(rosyln_ls): use default offset encoding (utf-16) instead of utf-8 (#4354) (8 weeks ago)
            11f730c chore: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (8 weeks ago)
            73b3e05 fix(metals): build.gradle.kts root marker #4353 (8 weeks ago)
            702f69f docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (8 weeks ago)
            ee95f2d fix(nextflow_ls): update cmd #4349 (8 weeks ago)
            d36ace0 docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (8 weeks ago)
            bdb8ae4 fix(roslyn_ls): add handler for roslyn.client.nestedCodeAction command #4350 (8 weeks ago)
            dc2f86d docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (8 weeks ago)
            9acfafa feat(tsgo): enable inlay hints #4348 (8 weeks ago)
            1d13d2b docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (8 weeks ago)
            5057ff7 fix(roslyn_ls): navigation in macos decompiled files #4342 (8 weeks ago)
            dd261ad docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (9 weeks ago)
            bce9aeb feat: stan_ls #4346 (9 weeks ago)
            4d0724b docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (9 weeks ago)
            938cf79 Merge #4344 from igorlfs/svelte-inlay-hints (9 weeks ago)
            b277492 chore: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (9 weeks ago)
            1e4edbf feat(svelte): enable inlay hints (9 weeks ago)
            883c649 docs: json schema for "settings" #4343 (9 weeks ago)
            3addf05 docs: readme (9 weeks ago)
            e37445d docs: update configs.md skip-checks: true (9 weeks ago)
            21b540f Merge #4306 generate annotations for Lua types (9 weeks ago)
            89fd036 docs: apply auto-generated annotations to LSP configs (9 weeks ago)
            dfa11da chore: update generated annotations skip-checks: true (9 weeks ago)
            6b05a26 ci: auto-generate annotations (9 weeks ago)
            fce4448 fix: sanitize invalid schema keys in type names (9 weeks ago)
            4567913 fix: map array object items to table[] (9 weeks ago)
            39fdfdf fix: avoid duplicate class names for nested schemas (9 weeks ago)
            c321e50 fix: respect schema required fields (9 weeks ago)
            67bd0e6 feat: auto-generate annotations for LSP settings (9 weeks ago)


      Updated (11)
        ● astrocore 71.79ms 󰢱 astrocore  AstroNvim
            cfd0e9c chore(main): release 3.0.3 (3 weeks ago)
            5b2fd75 chore(build): auto-generate vimdoc (3 weeks ago)
            2b87f90 perf(treesitter): improve performance of fold refresh after loading treesitter (3 weeks ago)
            e4e9103 chore(main): release 3.0.2 (4 weeks ago)
            4a8d354 chore(build): auto-generate vimdoc (4 weeks ago)
            84ecc2c fix(treesitter): only force a folds refresh if the buffer is the current buffer (4 weeks ago)
            a9e8285 chore(main): release 3.0.1 (4 weeks ago)
            f58c5e6 chore(build): auto-generate vimdoc (4 weeks ago)
            4763bc9 fix(treesitter): check buffer validity before enabling features (4 weeks ago)

        ○ astrotheme
            95c046b chore(main): release 4.11.0 (#176) (11 days ago)
            b501bb4 chore(extras): auto-generate extras (12 days ago)
            8038844 chore(build): auto-generate vimdoc (12 days ago)
            7466cde feat(extras): add Konsole (#175) (12 days ago)
            4ed9d11 chore(build): auto-generate vimdoc (3 months ago)
            31f2ff2 chore(build): auto-generate vimdoc (3 months ago)
            1b39e7d chore(build): auto-generate vimdoc (3 months ago)

        ○ blink-emoji.nvim
            dff7091 chore(stylua): ignore emojis.lua (5 weeks ago)
            f2cf613 chore(scripts): reformat data.lua and add a traling newline to the created emojis.lua file (5 weeks ago)

        ○ conjure  clojure  python  lua  janet  fennel  racket  hy  scheme  guile  julia  lisp  rust  sql
            f7a3759 Do a LOT less bencoding, we already have a benchmark suite, we don't need to stress test here (5 days ago)
            ef4e69b Fix the weirdly delayed Plenary "Starting" message by removing it and doing it ourselves lol (5 days ago)
            6157558 Add tests for latest tree sitter completions changes (5 days ago)
            a808fe0 Merge pull request #773 from seamusriordan/completion-parse-guard (5 days ago)
            8761943 Check treesitter languages are installed before querying (6 days ago)
            ba31dc9 Guard completions against failed parse (6 days ago)
            9fa07bb Merge pull request #772 from seamusriordan/validate-ts-parse-bugfix (6 days ago)
            bcf0fbe Also check returned pcall result for success (9 days ago)
            2f78b03 Fix logic error.  parse! should rely on non-nil parser to determine get_parser success (9 days ago)
            2ddd752 Close some more testing gaps (3 weeks ago)
            cd02bd8 Migrate config keys to use underscores, add hyphen migration #732 (3 weeks ago)
            609d302 Add more docs on disabling key binds for filetypes #749 (3 weeks ago)
            4701dcd Remove duplicate on_load checks for js and python clients (3 weeks ago)
            f66b3e7 Add java and clojure to mise (5 weeks ago)
            7ba01d7 Update nfnl (5 weeks ago)
            63ca8cb Handle newlines with whitespace, so we don't end up with big gaps, and concat already handles empty stuff nicely (5 weeks ago)
            dd0cf51 Merge pull request #766 from Stansom/main (5 weeks ago)
            a053f79 Compile log.lua (5 weeks ago)
            47ed5ae Merge pull request #768 from russtoku/iss-767 (5 weeks ago)
            82d2711 Merge branch 'main' into iss-767 (7 weeks ago)
            e695ea1 JS/TS: arrow-fn traversal fix (7 weeks ago)
            58eccfe Add last option to conjure#log#jump_to_latest#cursor_scroll_position (7 weeks ago)
            eb2f8e2 JS fix: better transformation errors, proper multiline handling, type import fix (8 weeks ago)
            80447bc JS fix: correct error in tsconfig example (8 weeks ago)
            b0a0bdc JS fix: resolve stale REPL state by fixing type alias handling (8 weeks ago)

        ○ gist.nvim  GistCreateFromFile  GistsList  GistCreate
            25cce08 feat: add support for custom filename override (#31) (2 days ago)
            0273364 feat: add support to github enterprise (8 days ago)
            e62eae6 chore: run stylua (8 days ago)

        ○ grug-far.nvim  GrugFarWithin  GrugFar
            21790e5 fixing opening in prev window (2 weeks ago)
            2160425 fixing types (5 weeks ago)
            ec04f05 adding hook for ripgrep sync (5 weeks ago)
            6000082 adding hook for astgrep replace (5 weeks ago)
            bf1486b adding unit tests and fixes for replace (5 weeks ago)
            9e8ff1e adding hook in ripgrep replace (5 weeks ago)
            8bff2d2 initial crack at async_job (5 weeks ago)
            f7ff40e adding on_before_edit_file hook (5 weeks ago)
            b08a9f8 fixing types (5 weeks ago)
            5274511 moved to .luarc.json (5 weeks ago)
            5552fc9 testing typechecking (5 weeks ago)

        ○ neogit  Neogit  User AstroGitFile
            99326a1 Show margin for commits on status buffer by default. Can be toggled via margin popup (L). (23 hours ago)
            395ac48 Add missing value check in config validation for popup.show_title (7 days ago)
            2bf8f19 Document type annotation for popup builder api. (7 days ago)
            9aad7b9 Allow git.tag.list to take an optional "filter" string param, which is passed to the cli call. (7 days ago)
            43bffaf Add a title to popups (7 days ago)
            e74dfb4 Move where in the buffer creation flow we actually show it in a window. By setting the filetype _before_ opening it, we can let users read that value in a BufWinEnter event. (8 days ago)
            7000b53 Add logging for when opening a buffer in a window fails. (8 days ago)
            f8bcc62 Chore: Update gha workflows to use checkout v6 (10 days ago)
            1060861 Update type annotations for NeogitPath instead of Path from plenary (10 days ago)
            dc5ecb2 Support retrying password authentication up to 3 times. (10 days ago)
            88000e7 Stylua (2 weeks ago)
            e2b140a Disable LFS for lefthook. Speedup. (2 weeks ago)
            dbf181a Add stylua check to `make lint` (2 weeks ago)
            6370de1 Fix lint warnings (2 weeks ago)
            568bd09 Be safer when deleting buffers for untracked files. (2 weeks ago)
            60cc834 Fix: when head is detached, push popup wasn't working. Fix that. (2 weeks ago)
            8612c15 Implement mechanism to queue actions (2 weeks ago)
            ddc82cc Use task style concurrency to allow canceling repository refreshes mid-flight. (2 weeks ago)
            e6d220a Replace plenary.async with built-in async module (2 weeks ago)
            172cbdc Replace plenary.path with built-in path module (2 weeks ago)
            792c139 Fix: When renaming a stash, don't lose it on accident. (3 weeks ago)
            2d94da0 Set default red color based on ErrorMsg (3 weeks ago)
            074fe1a Fix crash in NeogitConsole trying to connect to terminal that is already connected. (3 weeks ago)
            d1cfc49 Fix: handing username/password during git operations should work again. (4 weeks ago)
            e906fce Fix failing spec (4 weeks ago)
            984e10a fix: show console when git hooks fail (4 weeks ago)
            34a5f38 Prevent multiple spinners from conflicting (4 weeks ago)
            ca5546a Add blocking variant to user input to handle SSH/HTTP credentials during git action. (4 weeks ago)
            69bc017 Rename arg to _ since it's unused (4 weeks ago)
            ca0c7d2 Lint (4 weeks ago)
            3110f78 Add tag -> create release Action (4 weeks ago)

        ● nvim-surround 2.84ms  VeryLazy
            2e93e15 chore(main): release 4.0.5 (#444) (11 days ago)
            1381bd0 refactor: Remove top-level modules. (#445) (11 days ago)
            b2f3098 fix: Support treesitter parsers whose names differ from filetypes. (#443) (11 days ago)
            9291040 docs: Update help docs + README. (#442) (6 weeks ago)
            19e3947 docs(readme): add luarocks badge (#441) (6 weeks ago)

        ○ octo.nvim  Octo
            2163704 fix(fzf-lua): pop cb from opts in issues picker (#1513) (2 days ago)
            bbd903c fix: replace hardcoded diff highlight colors with configurable groups (#1500) (9 days ago)
            f4442a3 feat(pr-checks): copy check URL (#1503) (9 days ago)
            b3ab6d6 fix(folds): guard against out-of-range extmark rows in update_details_arrows (#1465) (9 days ago)
            60f9e6e chore(deps): bump williambdean/closing-labels from 0.0.6 to 0.0.7 (#1501) (10 days ago)
            34e67cc ci(tests): add nightly Neovim to test matrix (#1498) (3 weeks ago)
            c96d627 chore(docs): auto-generate README config section from config.lua (#1497) (3 weeks ago)
            9d1fce3 refactor: migrate gh.run graphql calls to gh.api.graphql (#1496) (3 weeks ago)
            e077321 fix(nvim): replace deprecated Neovim APIs (#1495) (3 weeks ago)
            5722e55 feat(gh): add X-Github-Next-Global-ID header to GraphQL requests (#1494) (3 weeks ago)
            43cf816 fix: add Bot fragment to requestedReviewer GraphQL queries (#1492) (3 weeks ago)
            ba9e117 fix(mutations): add marked/unmarked duplicate event fragments (#1490) (#1493) (3 weeks ago)
            be50f15 fix(mutations): add marked/unmarked duplicate event fragments (#1490) (3 weeks ago)
            a8ad064 feat(completion): support completion overrides for `Octo search` (#1480) (3 weeks ago)
            f7e1654 feat(timeline): duplicate timeline items (#1489) (3 weeks ago)
            37cbf0b chore(cache): use github cache for typechecking (#1488) (3 weeks ago)
            d3d4e49 fix(fzf-lua): set kind="repo" on preview buffer before render (#1470) (3 weeks ago)
            0384ae6 fix: add @type integer annotation for max_width to resolve no-unknown warning (#1487) (3 weeks ago)
            d382ecb fix(commands): fix regression due to discussion opening support (#1481) (3 weeks ago)
            74b2e1e fix(review): use more specific hash for file comparison (#1482) (3 weeks ago)
            15ea0ab fix(issue/pr): prevent crash on invalid referenced event (#1483) (3 weeks ago)
            bd915f5 ci(deps): bump lua ls version and remove unnecessary dep (#1484) (3 weeks ago)
            dcc79d2 Handle AutoMergeEnabledEvent and AutoMergeDisabledEvent timeline items (#1486) (3 weeks ago)
            65550fa fix(commands): guard against vim.NIL when checking issueOrPullRequest and discussion (#1478) (4 weeks ago)
            4e81d97 feat(commands): open issue, PR, or discussion by number (#1476) (4 weeks ago)
            19e7381 feat(comments): reference comment in new issue (#1467) (4 weeks ago)
            351b292 fix: handle @ symbol in PR title parsing (#1441) (5 weeks ago)

        ○ rainbow-delimiters.nvim  User AstroFile
            08783ec Updated documentation (4 weeks ago)
            9a3e674 Update patterns for ocaml grammar changes (5 weeks ago)

        ○ schemastore.nvim
    ```

---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
