---
title: Lots of Practicalli content
date:
  created: 2025-05-12
  updated: 2025-05-13
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - neovim
draft: true
---

After a sleepy weekend recovering from my Brompton cycling adventures I am back to organising the Practicalli books and backing up my computers ready for a reinstall.

I am thoroughly enjoying the second season of Andor (Disney+).  I loved the first season and the second is just as good.  The only thing I would change is have it spread over 3 seasons as there are more of the story to tell that would fill in the timeline gaps.  I think they could even get 4 or 5 seasons out of the story lines.

Last week I did consecutive days riding on the Brompton for my commute into London to volunteer for Devoxx UK.  This week I did 2 consecutive rides on my Ribble road bike and my legs are glowing after the second ride.

The first ride was a relatively gentle 64km with 678 meters of climbing spread out over smaller climbs.  I did manage a personal best of 17.2km/h up Poll Hill.  It was a lovely sunny day for riding and we stopped at a nice cafe with delicious cakes (although non for me as my blood sugar is still too high).

The second ride was a little more challenging at 714 meters of climbing in 57km distance, as there were quite a few long hills to climb.  I managed a personal best on the segment from Otford train station to the top of Poll Hill, although I was a bit slower up Poll Hill compared to yesterday as my legs were fading a bit.

!!! QUOTE "Never argue with an idiot"
    “Never argue with an idiot. They will drag you down to their level and beat you with experience.” ― Mark Twain



<!-- more -->


## Hyprland

[Hyde]() includes a Zsh configuration that uses powerlevel10k (although I am not sure if that was a default or if I selected that option)
Switched over to Starship prompt theme

!!! EXAMPLE "Hyde zshenv powerlevel10k theme"
```config title="~/.zshrc"
    if [ -t 1 ];then
        # We are loading the prompt on start so users can see the prompt immediately
        # Powerlevel10k theme path
        # P10k_THEME=${P10k_THEME:-/usr/share/zsh-theme-powerlevel10k/powerlevel10k.zsh-theme}
        # [[ -r $P10k_THEME ]] && source $P10k_THEME

        # To customize prompt, run `p10k configure` or edit ~/.p10k.zsh
        # [[ ! -f ~/.p10k.zsh ]] || source ~/.p10k.zsh
    ```

Add the starship init command to the end of the `.zshrc` file

!!! EXAMPLE "Starship init command for Zsh"
    ```shell
    eval "$(starship init zsh)"
    ```

Arch Linux has the `starship` package

!!! NOTE "Install Starship on Arch Linux"
    ```shell
    sudo pacman -Syu starship
    ```

Use the Starship configuration from [practicalli/dotfiles](https://github.com/practicalli/dotfiles) which is a customisation of the Catppuccin-powerline theme.


## I Devangelist

Converting the final GitBook I created many years ago to use MkDocs.  I have a lot of experiences to share and its long past time I started to share it properly.



---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
