---
title: Getting healthier Feeling healthier
date:
  created: 2025-09-08
  updated: 2025-09-08
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - clojure
draft: false
---

I've lost 1 and a half bags of sugar in the last 4 days and had an excellent ride through Northern France, so feeling very motivated.

My Hyprland setup is working well, so I should be able to stop yak shaving all the configuration files 🤣  I do need to version control the config and document Garuda Linux and my own preferences for Hyprland.


<!-- more -->

## Neovim

- A question about Treesitter change from master to main branch.  Change committed to remove legacy dependency.
- Any breaking changes for Neovim 0.11.4 release ?  Nope.

### New key bindings

• |grn| in Normal mode maps to |vim.lsp.buf.rename()|
• |grr| in Normal mode maps to |vim.lsp.buf.references()|
• |gri| in Normal mode maps to |vim.lsp.buf.implementation()|
• |gO| in Normal mode maps to |vim.lsp.buf.document_symbol()|
• |gra| in Normal and Visual mode maps to |vim.lsp.buf.code_action()|
• |grt| in Normal mode maps to |vim.lsp.buf.type_definition()|
• CTRL-S in Insert and Select mode maps to |vim.lsp.buf.signature_help()|
• Mouse |popup-menu| includes an "Open in web browser" item when you right-click
  on a URL.
• Mouse |popup-menu| includes a "Go to definition" item when LSP is active
  in the buffer.
• Mouse |popup-menu| includes "Show Diagnostics", "Show All Diagnostics" and
  "Configure Diagnostics" items when there are diagnostics in the buffer.
• |]d-default| and |[d-default| accept a count.
• |[D-default| and |]D-default| jump to the first and last diagnostic in the
  current buffer, respectively.
• Mappings inspired by Tim Pope's vim-unimpaired:
  • |[q|, |]q|, |[Q|, |]Q|, |[CTRL-Q|, |]CTRL-Q| navigate through the |quickfix| list
  • |[l|, |]l|, |[L|, |]L|, |[CTRL-L|, |]CTRL-L| navigate through the |location-list|
  • |[t|, |]t|, |[T|, |]T|, |[CTRL-T|, |]CTRL-T| navigate through the |tag-matchlist|
  • |[a|, |]a|, |[A|, |]A| navigate through the |argument-list|
  • |[b|, |]b|, |[B|, |]B| navigate through the |buffer-list|
  • |[<Space>|, |]<Space>| add an empty line above and below the cursor
• |[[| and |]]| in Normal mode jump between shell prompts for shells which emit
  OSC 133 sequences ("shell integration" or "semantic prompts").


## Hyprland

<!-- TODO:  -->
Change the SDDM login profile picture by coping an image to `/usr/share/sddm/faces/`, using the file name form `username.face.icon`.


### File Manager

Garuda Linux Hyprland edition uses Thunar as the file manager.  It has some quirks but has enough features for my needs.

Thunar stalls quite badly when copying large files or large amounts of files, especially to or from a Network Attached Storage (NAS) device.  Thunar makes the operating system grind to a halt and constantly prompts errors.

> NOTE: stalling seems to be a problem for Dolphin file manager too, so maybe an issue with something they are both using ?

Dolphin is the file manager for the KDE Plasma desktop environment, and it works well on Garuda Linux with Hyprland by leveraging its KDE Plasma integration, allowing users to navigate, manage, and interact with files and folders across their system, USB drives, and network shares.

Dolphin supports advanced features like tabbed browsing, previews, split view, network protocols (FTP, SMB), and plugins for enhanced functionality, making it a powerful choice for file management within Hyprland.

To use Dolphin, install the dolphin package and then ensure it's set as the default file manager in Hyprland's configuration, or launch it manually from the terminal or applications menu.

!!! NOTE "Install Dolphin file manager"
    ```shell
    sudo pacman -S dolphin
    ```

Running Dolphin on Garuda Hyprland works, but the theme is not correct and most of the text of the application is unreadable.

A [redit discussion](https://www.reddit.com/r/hyprland/comments/1hzs2zy/why_cant_i_change_the_dolphin_theme_i_dont_think/) had several solutions and the suggestion in the final comment worked.

!!! NOTE "KDE theme Configure"
    ```conf
    [UiSettings]
    ColorScheme=*
    ```

!!! NOTE "Set KDE QPA Platform theme to qt6ct"
    ```conf title="~/.config/hypr/settings/manual_settings.conf"
    # Practicalli: add for dolphin file manager
    env = QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME,qt6ct
    ```

Another challenge with Dolphin is that it doesn't have the default application (or know about any applications) for opening a file.

KDE-applications rely on the KService desktop-file system configuration cache, [kbuildsycoca6](https://man.archlinux.org/man/kbuildsycoca6.8), for selecting desktop entries.

The [Dolphin page on the Arch Linux Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Dolphin) suggests installing the `archlinux-xdg-menu` package

Then run a command in a terminal to update the application menu:

```shell
$ XDG_MENU_PREFIX=arch- kbuildsycoca6 --noincremental
```

The `--noincremental` argument is optional.

XDG_MENU_PREFIX is needed because `archlinux-xdg-menu` creates an XDG Desktop Menu with an arch- prefix (see [xdg-menu](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Xdg-menu)).

The XDG Desktop Menu files can be found in `/etc/xdg/menus/*-applications.menu`.

> NOTE: `kbuildsycoca6` is part of the kservice package, which is a dependency of dolphin, so normally shouldnt need to be installed manually.


!!! NOTE "Disable Application Not Responding dialog"
    Prevent the "Application Not Responding" dialog from showing, as its way too sensitive, especially copying files over the network.

    ```config title="~/.config/hypr/settings/manual_settings.conf"
    misc {
        enable_anr_dialog = false
    }
    ```

Practicalli has updated the G-Hyprland config to include a few options around the Application Not Responding dialog

Now that the configuration is more stable ( :crossed_fingers: ) I will switch of the automatic reloading of the config on changes.

```config
misc {
    disable_hyprland_logo = true

    # Practicalli
    # Application Not Responding dialog

    # Prevent file managers spamming with a dialog
    enable_anr_dialog = false

    # Increase missed 'alive' pings to limit how often the dialog shows
    # anr_missed_pings = 10

    # Disable automatic reload of the config when change detected
    # Use `hyprctrl reload` to update changes
    # Can save on power usage
    disable_autoreload = true
}
```

!!! INFO "Manually reload Hyprland configuration"
    ```shell
    hyprctrl reload
    ```

### Wallpaper

The wpaperd GitHub readme has a detailed section on [wallpaper configuration](https://github.com/danyspin97/wpaperd?tab=readme-ov-file#wallpaper-configuration){target=_blank}

The [duration time format](https://docs.rs/humantime/latest/humantime/fn.parse_duration.html){target=_blank} is quite flexible.  I set the wallpaper to change once a day, every 24 hours.

A wallpaper can be set for a specific monitor or use `any` as a fall-back wallpaper.

`hyprctrl monitors` command shows the names used to refer to each monitor detected.

> NOTE: To use a fixed wallpaper, specify the filename of the image in the path rather than a directory.

!!! EXAMPLE "Configure Wpaperd for multiple monitors"
    ```toml title=".config/wpaperd/config.toml"
    [default]
    transition-time = 600
    duration = '24 hours'

    [any]
    path = "~/Pictures/wallpaper/hyprland/"

    # Laptop monitor
    [eDP-1]
    path = "~/Pictures/wallpaper/favorites/"

    # External monitor display link
    [DP-2]
    path = "~/Pictures/wallpaper/practicalli/"
    ```

!!! INFO "Wpaperd image format support"
    wpaperd support image formats: AVIF, BMP, DDS, EXR, FF, GIF, HDR, ICO, JPEG, PNG, PNM, QOI, TGA, TIFF, and WebP

    [:fontawesome-brands-github: image-rs/image readme](https://github.com/image-rs/image/blob/main/README.md#supported-image-formats){target=_blank}


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
