---
title: Slayed after the Dragon Ride
date:
  created: 2026-06-15
  updated: 2026-06-20
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - cycling
  - zensical
  - python-uv
draft: true
---

This week I am experiencing a mixture of adrenaline buzz and exhaustion from completing the Dragon Ride on Sunday.  I did get a wonderful sleep the night after :)

By mid-week I was itching to get back on the bike for a ride.  On Thursday I joined a few friends on a steady ride to Velobarn Cafe.  This helped my wake up my body and I did a fast ride home via South Croydon.

Friday I did a longer ride to Box Hill and back again.  It was a hot day and I was riding solo, so I could pace myself as I needed.  I was surprised at how good my body and mind felt and I was able to keep pushing all the way round.

Going fast on a bike is a great way to feel cool, as there is a constant breeze over my sweaty skin.  It only feels hot when I stop (which I didn't do, except for the odd bit of traffic congestion).

Saturday I went to Chiddingstone for cake and felt good until after we stopped.  My legs did ache quite a lot on the way back, so probably had too much cake 🍰 🍰

On Sunday I took it easy and stayed home and updated [Zensical](#zensical), trying out a [Catppuccin theme plugin](#catppuccin-theme) to match my editor and terminal shell.

Its been a very hot week, but keeping my windows and curtains closed during the day keeps my house cool.  On the hottest days I did have a fan running, especially when working on the computer.

<!-- more -->



## Zensical

Zensical continues to evolve and increase in features and scope.  The current work has been mostly on [Zensical Studio](https://zensical.org/studio/), an editor plugin to allow refactor of documentation just like other code.

Zensical Studio is currently a VS Code specific plugin, but hopefully there will be other editor integrations.

A bash script to install VS Code on Debian Linux was added to [Practicalli/dotfiles](https://github.com/dotfiles){target=_blank}


## Catppuccin theme

[Catppuccin theme for Zensical](https://jonathan343.github.io/catppuccin-zensical/) provides the 4 variants of the Catppuccin theme (Mocha, Macchiato, Frappe, Latte) for static web sites built with Zensical.

This custom theme can be installed via pip or uv.  Practicalli uses uv and the Makefile, Zensical config and GitHub publishing workflow were updated to include the catppuccin-zensical plugin.

The `docs-install` Makefile task was updated to include the catppuccin-zensical plugin, using the `--with` option when installing a tool

```make title="Makefile"
docs-install:  ## Install or upgrade Zensical in Python virtual environment
	uv tool install zensical --with catppuccin-zensical --upgrade
```

Running `make docs-install` updated zensical plugin and its default dependencies, and the catppuccin-zensical plugin was installed.


```shell-output
❯ make docs-install
uv tool install zensical --with catppuccin-zensical --upgrade
Resolved 11 packages in 776ms
Prepared 8 packages in 2.63s
Uninstalled 4 packages in 213ms
Installed 8 packages in 347ms
 + catppuccin-zensical==0.2.2
 - click==8.3.1
 + click==8.4.1
 + jinja2==3.1.6
 + markupsafe==3.0.3
 - pygments==2.19.2
 + pygments==2.20.0
 - pymdown-extensions==10.21
 + pymdown-extensions==10.21.3
 + tomli==2.4.1
 - zensical==0.0.28
 + zensical==0.0.45
Installed 1 executable: zensical
```

Updated the theme configuration in `zensical.toml`, copying the example from the [zensical.toml file in the catppuccin-zensical github repository](https://github.com/jonathan343/catppuccin-zensical/blob/main/zensical.toml)


```toml title="zensical.toml"
[project.theme]
name = "catppuccin"

[[project.theme.palette]]
scheme = "catppuccin-mocha"
primary = "custom"
accent = "custom"
toggle.icon = "lucide/moon"
toggle.name = "Switch to Macchiato"

[[project.theme.palette]]
scheme = "catppuccin-macchiato"
primary = "custom"
accent = "custom"
toggle.icon = "lucide/cloud-moon"
toggle.name = "Switch to Frappé"

[[project.theme.palette]]
scheme = "catppuccin-frappe"
primary = "custom"
accent = "custom"
toggle.icon = "lucide/cloud-sun"
toggle.name = "Switch to Latte"

[[project.theme.palette]]
scheme = "catppuccin-latte"
primary = "custom"
accent = "custom"
toggle.icon = "lucide/sun"
toggle.name = "Switch to Mocha"
```

> NOTE: the documentation says only the `name = catppuccin` is required, but that did not seem to work.  Adding the palette config worked correctly and I was also able to switch between theme variants.


## Zensical Studio

Zensical Studio plugin for VS Code is a handy tool for finding issues with links.

It can also fix links, but it fails to find files in different directories without help.

I didn't find the UI particularly intuitive, although I am not used to using VS Code either.

??? EXAMPLE "Install Script for Debian Linux"
    ```shell
    #!/usr/bin/env bash

    # INFO: VS Code Download page:
    # https://code.visualstudio.com/download

    echo
    echo "# ---------------------------------------"
    echo "VS Code editor"
    echo "Installed via Debian Linux package system"
    echo

    echo "Download official VS Code Debian Package"
    wget "https://code.visualstudio.com/sha/download?build=stable&os=linux-deb-x64" --output-document=/tmp/vscode_amd64.deb
    echo

    echo "Install VS Code package"
    sudo apt-get install /tmp/vscode_amd64.deb
    echo

    echo "VS Code now available via desktop launcher and command line:"
    echo "Slack version: $(code --version)"
    echo "# ---------------------------------------"
    echo
    ```

## Cycling

More Wahoo strangeness this week.  On Friday the touch screen stopped working about half way of the ride and it took a while to resolve the issue.

I had pulled down the settings menu with the touch screen, but after 5 minutes of trying I could not push it up and close it.

I tried cleaning the screen as I though some sun cream may be causing a false pressure point that would confuse the touch screen.  This did not help.

After a bit of experimentation, the left side button on the wahoo closed the settings drop-down menu.  Actually it acts like a toggle.

On Saturday I switched the Wahoo on and was presented with the passcode screen.  The touchscreen was still not working so I could not enter the passcode in by tapping on the numbers.  I restarted a few times with the same results.

I set off anyway as I was running late, although still had the passcode screen showing.  I tried pressing the right-hand buttons and they did navigate through the number pad display of the passcode screen.  The middle button of the computer screen selected the number.  So I was able to unlock the Wahoo and press start for the ride.

On Monday morning I still had not managed to get the touch screen working, so I did a factory reset.

After pairing the wahoo computer with my phone again (first unpairing from the phone), the setup stalled after the WiFi connect (possibly because I didnt add the WiFi password in first time, but it connected the second time).

I pressed Reset on the Wahoo and started the setup process again, this time with the WiFi password already copied into my phones clipboard.  The setup ran quickly and was back up an running.

I pairs the Coospo Heart Rate Monitor (the second HR sensor that appeared), then the Garmin Speed Sensor and Coospo Cadence sensor (not the cadence and speed sensor).

---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
