---
title: Heatwave and Tropical Storms
date:
  created: 2026-06-22
  updated: 2026-06-24
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - entertainment
  - security
draft: false
---

A mixture of the hottest days ever recorded in the United Kingdom (39 Celsius) and tropical storms set the scene for this week.  Exercise in the early mornings and sleeping in the afternoons is helping get through this week.

I am not sleeping so well at night, but getting just about enough sleep each day.

Monday was a ride to the Archive Cafe, taking the longer route around Redhill Aerodrome for a nice 105km ride.

Tuesday was a relaxing day (due to the heat) and I set up [Proton Plus as my new password manager](#password-managers)

Wednesday was a trip to the Velobarn.  I had not slept much the night before and was awake around 5am.  As I couldnt sleep I got ready to cycle and when out just after 6am for a warm-up ride along the A21.  There was a nice breeze to keep my cool.

Thursday was another early start, 7am for a ride to Chiddingstone cafe with Emma, indulging in a slice of American Cheesecake.


**Movies**

*The Old Guard 1 & 2*

Its an okay action romp with interesting characters and background story.

The second movie seems to be a 2-part movie after ending half way through its storyline.  It is unclear if Netflix (or anyone else) will make Old Guard 3 and complete the story.


*Nandor Fodor and the Talking Mongoose*

A fun and quirky movie with Simon Pegg, Minnie Driver and Christopher Lloyd.  A parapsychologist is intrigued by a story of a talking Mongoose that lives with a family on the Isle of Man.  They set of to investigate if this is real.

Its interesting story about what 'real' actually means.  What is real to one person may not be real to another.  Its a very subtle story that touches on very deep feelings and beliefs that we all have.

Simon Pegg gives a stirring and enjoyable performance.


**TV Shows**

*Buck Rogers in the 25th Century*

Ironically the fact that this series shows its age is actually a positive reinforcement on some of the light social commentary it tries to convey.

Its a fun show and has very likeable characters, even if the story is fairly predictable.  It is nice to watch something for the pure joy and escapism it provides.

*Duck Dogers In the 24th and a half century*

Looney Toons cartoons took the Daffy Duck character (one of their most richly developed in my opinion, up there with Bugs Bunny) and turned them into a Spaceman.  There is something about this particular cartoon that always makes me laugh.

In Babylon 5, the character Michael Garibaldi (Chief of Security) refers to Daffy Duck as the "Egyptian God of Frustration", which is a very succinct way to sum up that character.

*The Devils Hour*

I crime mini-series with [Peter Capaldi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Capaldi) as the 'devil'.  Its a curious story and I am enjoying the distraction from the heat of the day.

<!-- more -->


## Password Managers

I have been using 1Password for the last year and its been okay.  The UI is a bit slow to respond on Android, but its not too bad on Linux in Firefox.

The cost of a renewed subscription has nearly doubled, from 30 GBP to 55GBP.  As there aren't any new features I need, this significant increase seams unwarranted.  I cancelled my 1Password subscription and now evaluating other managers.

I have switched to [Proton Pass](https://proton.me/) which has a similar user experience (nicer and a bit faster) to 1Password.

I'll also try [KeePassXC](https://keepassxc.org/) and [Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com/).


### 1Password Migration

I have a lot of passwords in 1Password (maybe too many), so I dont want to copy them all out by hand as that would take days (weeks).

It is possible to use the Linux App for 1Password to export all the items from my personal vault.

Clicking on the 3-dot menu button next to my account name in the Linux app shows a menu that includes an Export option.

A pop-up appears and requests the account password and the type of file to export items too.  1UPX is the preferred option as it includes more information.  The CVS export option only carries the basics, eg. username, password, site, etc.

Unfortunately after entering the correct password, selecting the file type and pressing Export, nothing happens.

I am using the latest version of 1Password app, 8.12.24.


The article [Update Settings to Export Data](https://support.1password.com/linux-ptrace-scope-issue/)

I ran the command to check if Yama is loaded and active (ptrace is restricted) in the terminal

!!! NOTE "Check if Yama kernel module has loaded"
    ```shell
    cat /proc/sys/kernel/yama/ptrace_scope
    ```


!!! EXAMPLE "Check if Yama kernel module has loaded"
    ```shell-output
    cat /proc/sys/kernel/yama/ptrace_scope
    0
    ```

Zero is returned which means Yama is loaded but not active.  So I followed the link in the article to set ptrace restrictions.

First, close the 1Password Linux app.

In a terminal session, run this command to temporarily set ptrace (resets after reboot of OS).


!!! NOTE "Set Yama ptrace scope to active"
    ```shell
    sudo sysctl -w kernel.yama.ptrace_scope=1
    ```

!!! EXAMPLE "Output from setting Yama ptrace scope to active"
    ```shell-output
    ❯ sudo sysctl -w kernel.yama.ptrace_scope=1
    [sudo] password for practicalli:
    kernel.yama.ptrace_scope = 1
    ```

In the same terminal, run the `1password` command to run the Linux app.

A prompt to login to the 1Password app should appear (if not then you may have to quick the Linux app and try again).

Now the export should work 🥳


### Proton Pass

Installed the Linux (Debain package from website) and Android app (from Google Play Store).

The [Firefox Proton Pass Add-on](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/proton-pass/) is also setup.

Importing the 1PUX file from 1Password was easy.

Run the Proton Pass Linux app and login.

Select the cog next to the username (bottom left corner), in the popup menu select "Export".

Select the 1Password import option and select the exported 1pux file previously exported.  It took less than 10 seconds to import ~350 items.


---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
