---
title: A welcome drop in temperature
date:
  created: 2026-06-29
  updated: 2026-06-29
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - clojure
draft: true
---

The heatwave has dissipated for now, although its still very warm weather this week and getting hotter by the weekend.


Movies this week

- [The Running Man]() was a well-made action movie, following the original story much more closely than the Arnold Swatzerniger version.  Apart from the visualse, there wasnt much new with the movie and lacked some of the humour that the first movie had.  Worth a watch, but not something I would watch again.

- Sponge Bob: The search for SquarePants is the latest animated film from the franchise.  There is something about the character that is enjoyable, I guess Spong Bob is just the right amount of silly.  Very eclectic music choices, including "Holiday in Cambodia" by the Dead Kennedys (without the lyrics of course).


<!-- more -->


## Cycling

An early  cycle down to East Peckham on Tuesday, although I dont thing I every really woke up fully.


A friend wanted to do a 100 mile route, so I modified the route to Dymchurch.  The new route goes as far as Shadoxhurst, coming back in a bit more of a loop than the original Dymchurch route.  Shadoxhurst turned out to be a little longer than 100 miles, so I shortened the route to circle back just before Bethernden.

---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
