---
title: Resting week
date:
  created: 2026-03-23
  updated: 2026-03-28
authors:
  - practicalli
categories:
  - practicalli
tags:
  - clojure
  - cycling
  - debian
draft: true
---

I have a little injury so will be taking it easier this week.  I am doing a lot more stretching and some yoga. I will aim for a hilly ride on Saturday morning (but not too early).

My mood is very low this week and finding it hard to get motivated.  Focused on small tasks to start improving my mood again.

My mood wasn't helped by muscle strain around my hip and shoulder.  After several hours of yoga my muscle pain is starting to ease and my legs feel pretty good.  My shoulders are still very stiff after lots of stretching though.

- [Yoga Morning Fresh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMu6OKF5Z1k) a good all-round yoga session
- [Tension relief for Cyclists](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V-uFp_NuliQ) excellent for stretching muscles
- [Full Body Strength routine for Cyclists](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pwelUo8wzLc&t=645s) more challenging workout that builds up a sweat quite quickly

<!-- more -->


## Debian Linux

One of my computers had Debian Linux installed before my post-install script was created.  That computer was missing the `openssh-sftp-server` package, so I was unable to use `sftp` to connect to other computers to copy or move files.

I've added `openssh-client`, `openssh-sftp-server` and `openssh-server` to the list of post-install packages.

Once the sftp server package is installed, that service is added to the OpenSSH server.  To be usable, the computer should be rebooted or the OpenSSH server service daemon restarted.

!!! NOTE "Restart OpenSSH service daemon via systemd"
    ```shell
    sudo systemctl restart sshd
    ```

> NOTE: before systemd, OpenSSH server would be a service that could be restarted with the command `sudo service sshd restart`


## GitHub

I received a notification from GitHub that a workflow would be disabled soon.  GitHub automatically disables workflows after 80 days of inactivity on a repository.

Looking at the workflow history, it has always failed when run as a scheduled job.  I updated the [Full of Stars](#starred-repositories) workflow to fix an issue with the incorrect GitHub account name being used.

Another email was a login alert stating there was a successful login from Kiev, Ukraine.  This was not me, so initially I was concerned.  I nearly clicked the link, but then thought how could there be a login to GitHub when there is 2-Factor authentication (and a decent password).

As I was reading the email on my mobile device, I switched to my Linux desktop so I could see the address of the link.  It was obviously a face link as was the email address that had been used to send me the alert.

The fake email was reported for phishing to Google Mail team.


### Starred Repositories

[practicalli-johnny/omg-its-full-of-stars](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny/omg-its-full-of-stars) is a repository that shows which GitHub repositories my account has given a star too.

It uses [stargazer](https://github.com/rverst/stargazer/) project to automatically updates the `README.md` file with a table of stared repositories by the `practicalli-johnny` GitHub account.

I created a GitHub Workflow to automatically update the `README.md` file at 02:42 ever day, using the GitHub workflow `schedule`, defining a `cron` job.

Initially I tested the workflow manually, by including a `workflow_dispatch` trigger.  This shows a **Run workflow** button when viewing the workflow (under Actions section of the website).

Unfortunatley the GitHub workflow script had a bug that I didnt spot.

The workflow script uses the rverst/stargazer action with variables, the `github-user` determining the GitHub user account to check for stars.

`${{ github.actor }}` was used to get the username of the person running the workflow.  This returns `practicalli-johnny` when run manually via the **Run workflow** button, as its triggered by that user.

When the workflow is run from a schedule cron trigger, the `${{ github.actor }}` value is `github-actions`.

When searching for `github-actions` as a user, the stargazer action fails and states the user is not recognised.

I could simply hard-code the value of `github-user` to the desired GitHub account name.

Looking through the [GitHub Variables](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflows-and-actions/variables){target=_blank}, the `GITHUB_REPOSITORY_OWNER` will return the GitHub user name of the owner of the repository, in this case `practicalli-johnny`.

The workflow was updated to use `GITHUB_REPOSITORY_OWNER` as the `github-user` value.

```yaml

      - name: Create star list
        id: stargazer
        uses: rverst/stargazer@v1.2.6
        with:
          # When run manually, github.actor variable will be the current user
          # When run from cron, github.actor variable is `github-actions`
          # github-user: ${{ github.actor }}
          github-user: ${{ github.repository_owner }}   # Extract current repo owner name
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          list-file: "README.md"
          format: table
          with-back-to-top: true
```

Another manual run of the workflow was carried out successfully.

I have to wait until tomorrow for the schedule to run to ensure this approach works with the GitHub `schedule` trigger.


### Node.js 24 new default version

GitHub action workflows will use Node.js from 26 April 2026.

I saw this notice as the `ad-m/github-push-action@v1` action is using Node.js version 20 and when I ran the Full of Stars workflow, GitHub displayed a warning on the build.

The build did work, but I thought it prudent to see if I could fix the action or find an alternative.

[stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action](https://github.com/stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action) is a regularly maintained GitHub action and also simplifies the original GitHub workflow script.

The commented lines are replaced by a one-line call to git-auto-commit-action.

```yaml
# This workflow builds a list of your starred repositories
name: Full Of Stars

on:
  # Manually trigger workflow
  workflow_dispatch:
  # Daily schedule
  schedule:
    - cron: '42 2 * * *'

permissions:
  contents: write

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      # Checks-out your repository under $GITHUB_WORKSPACE, so your job can access it
      - uses: actions/checkout@v6

      # Generate the list
      - name: Create star list
        id: stargazer
        uses: rverst/stargazer@v1.2.6
        with:
          # When run manually, github.actor variable will be the current user
          # When run from cron, github.actor variable is `github-actions`
          # github-user: ${{ github.actor }}
          github-user: ${{ github.repository_owner }}   # Extract current repo owner name
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          list-file: "README.md"
          format: table
          with-back-to-top: true

      # Commit the changes
      # - name: Commit files
      #   run: |
      #     git config --local user.email "actions@noreply.github.com"
      #     git config --local user.name "github-actions[bot]"
      #     git add .
      #     git commit -m "Update list of starred repositories on GitHub"

      # Push the changes
      # - name: Push
      #   uses: ad-m/github-push-action@v1
      #   with:
      #     github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      #     branch: ${{ github.ref }}

      # Commit all changed files back to the repository
      - uses: stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action@v7
```

Using a manual trigger of the workflow, a new commit was pushed to the repository that successfully updated the `README.md` file with the latest star information.

[Deprecation of Node 20 on GitHub Actions runners](https://github.blog/changelog/2025-09-19-deprecation-of-node-20-on-github-actions-runners/){target=_blank .md-button}

---
Thank you.

[:globe_with_meridians: Practical.li Website](https://practical.li){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-github: Practical.li GitHub Org](https://github.com/practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-github: practicalli-johnny profile](https://github.com/practicalli-johnny){target=_blank .md-button}

[:fontawesome-brands-mastodon: @practicalli@clj.social](https://clj.social/@practicalli){target=_blank .md-button}
[:fontawesome-brands-twitter: @practical_li](https://twitter.com/practcial_li){target=_blank .md-button}
